# Contributing to Tasty Noodles' Project

**Make sure to follow our branching strategy and commit message guidelines!**

## Branching Strategy

- **Always** make descriptive commit messages in [conventional
  commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) format.
- **Always** document your code with comments along the way
    - Use [JSDoc](https://jsdoc.app/) for JavaScript
- **Always** pull from the main branch before you start working on a new
  feature.
- **Never** push to the main branch! (except for admin stuff)
  - **Always** create a new branch for each feature you are working on. Name the
    branch after the feature you are working on with your name and project
    scope. For example, if you are working on the `audio` feature for the
    frontend, name the branch `frontend-audio-john`.
  - **Always** create a pull request when you are done with a feature. Assign
    pull request to the team lead or someone else you work with for review
    before merging into the main branch.
- Make changes as small as possible and commit often. This will make it easier
  to track changes and revert back to previous commits if needed.
- Submit issues for any bugs you find or features you want to add you don't have
  time for or not a priority. Don't forget to assign the issue to someone and
  leave a reasonable amount of description for context and reference.

## Commit Message Guidelines

We use [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)
format for our commit messages. This allows us to automatically generate
changelogs and version our releases. Make sure to follow the guidelines below
when writing commit messages:

- Use the present tense ("add feature" not "added feature")
- Use the imperative mood ("move cursor to..." not "moves cursor to...")
- Limit the first line to 72 characters or less
- Reference issues and pull requests liberally after the first line
- When only changing documentation, include `[ci skip]` in the commit title

Conventional Commits format:

```text
<type>(<scope>): <subject>

<type>          (required) The type of commit:

    - build       Changes that affect the build system or external dependencies (example scopes: npm, broccoli, npm)
    - chore       Other changes that don't modify src or test files
    - ci          Changes to our CI configuration files and scripts (example scopes: Travis, Circle, BrowserStack, SauceLabs)
    - docs        Documentation only changes
    - feat        A new feature
    - fix         A bug fix
    - perf        A code change that improves performance
    - refactor    A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
    - revert      Reverts a previous commit
    - style       Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc)
    - test        Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests

NOTE: Adding a '!' after the type/scope indicates a breaking change.

<scope>         (optional) Scope of the commit:

    - frontend    Frontend code
    - backend     Backend code
    - db          Database code
    - admin       Admin documents

Example commits:

    1.  feat: add new mobile touch feature
    2.  fix: fix database bug
    3.  feat(frontend): add new horoscope generator class
    4.  test(backend): add unit tests for genHoroscope.js
    5.  docs: update README about workflow
    6.  docs(admin): add meeting notes for 05/25/2023
    6.  refactor!: breaking changes to the API
    7.  revert(backend)!: revert commit 123456
```

## Development

This applies to both `fortunetelling` and `magic8ball` projects.

> **Note:** CHANGELOG.md is automatically generated by via GitHub workflows. Do
> not edit this file manually. Also, only commits that follow [conventional
> commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) format will be
> included in the changelog.

### Dependencies

Make sure to install all dependencies before you start working on the project.
`fortunetelling` project use `husky` to run `pre-commit` hooks to format and
lint your code before you commit. It also makes sure you follow conventional
commits format for your commit messages.

> **Note:** Linting errors will prevent you from committing your code. Make sure
> to fix all linting errors before you commit.

To install all dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

### Formatting and Linting

To format and lint all source code:

```bash
npm run format
```

## Testing

To run all tests:

```bash
npm run test
```
